In the previous video, we already
learn about how switch and router work.
The summary is that switch is used to
connecting many computer that in the same
block subnet. And router is used to connecting
many computer that in the different block subnet.
And then, now in this video, we are going to
practice about switch in cisco packet tracer.
Let’s just start!
Let’s import a switch to our project. Go to
network devices, here we can see a router,
switch, hub, wireless, and others. Click on
the switch. Here we can use cisco switch 2960.
Next let’s add some pc. Go to end device, and add
some more pc. Let’s say here we want to have 5 pc.
And here we can remove cable between pc0 and pc1.
Now let’s connecting all of the pc to the switch.
Okay now all of pc already
connected to the switch.
Next let’s configure the ip address of all
pc with the same block subnet. Let’s say
we will use the first block
subnet. Let’s start with pc0,
the ip address is 10.10.10.1, and the
subnetmask is 255.255.255.224. next for pc1,
the Ip address is 10.10.10.2
and the subnetmask is correct.
Okay next for pc2, the ip address is 10.10.10.3
and the subnetmask is 255.255.255.224.
Next for pc3, the ip address is 10.10.10.4 and the
subnetmask is 255.255.255.224. and last, for pc4,
the ip address is 10.10.10.5
and the subnetmask is 255.255.255.224. Okay we
have done configuring ip address for all pc.
Now let’s test the connection between
all pc. Here we can test using packet.
Let’s test from pc0 to pc1.
Okay here we can see that the result is
successful, here we can see many result,
we can just delete it. Now let’s test again
from pc0 to pc1, okay success, from pc1 to pc2,
also success, from pc3 to pc4, also
success, and from pc4 to pc5 also success.
Okay so now all pc can communicate
each others. This is because all
of pc is in the same block subnet.
For the testing, now let’s
change the ip address of pc4.
Let’s say we want to change to 10.10.10.40,
and if we see our calculation before,
10.10.10.40 Is in the second block subnet. so pc4
should not be able to communicate with others pc.
Let’s send packet from pc4 to pc3, here
we can see that the result is failed.
Now let’s test again from pc4 to
pc2, also failed. From pc4 to pc0,
and this is also failed. Okay, so remember
that switch is used to connecting many pc
that is in the same block subnet. If there
is a pc that in the different block subnet,
so that pc can not communicate with other pc.
Okay now let’s change the ip address of pc4 again,
let’s change this to 5 again. Let’s try ping from
pc3 to pc4, and okay now the result is success.
Okay I think enough for this video. In the next
video, we are going to practice with router.
Thankyou for watching and
see you on the next video